[Music]
monke hey what's going on guys this is
Andrew chicken and welcome back to
another video I have had a very
stressful day and it's because of my own
undoing I am suffering the consequences
of my actions and uh yeah I'm a total
fool so I want to basically just tell
you the story of what I've gone through
with my computer recently and uh yeah
cuz it's kind of a silly story it
affects my YouTube and streaming of
course uh almost made things a heck of a
lot worse but luckily there is a sort of
happy ending and yeah I'm not super
focused on the gameplay here I'm just
going to be playing some bomb King
because I can kind of just play him uh
and not really worry too much and focus
more on the actual story of what
happened so if you've been following my
twitch Channel specifically uh then you
probably know that I have had a lot of
technical problems with my computer
going back many many months and every
now and then I would complain about said
problems on stream and sometimes
especially recently those uh technical
issues would actually surface and rear
their ugly head on my stream for example
actually the past few streams now I've
had what I deem the black screen
phenomenon where my screen will go
completely black I'll hear a disconnect
sound from Windows and then I'll hear a
reconnect sound of a few moments later
the screens will come back on and
usually a program will have crashed and
when it's happened on stream paladins
would crash and then OBS would get all
kinds of screwed up and uh yeah it's you
know a bit of a problem so yeah uh that
is very annoying and I've also had
issues prior to this with uh my software
is on my computer just crashing period
right like I would open blender try and
do a render crash open Path of Exile try
and play that crash at one point it got
really bad to the point where Warframe
itself all right a game that is
notoriously well optimized uh was
crashing when I would try to open it so
I knew there was some sort of serious
problem and this Warframe crash in
particular that I'm talking about what
happening almost a year ago now at this
point and I didn't really know what was
causing it I was literally tearing my
hair out over this issue okay maybe not
literally but uh I like to think it's
why my hairline is terrible
and um yeah this uh I I tried a whole
bunch of things I tried messing with the
GPU eventually I did find a solution
which is to underclock my CPU I
installed Intel's XTU or extreme tuning
utility which is a product by Intel that
allows you to either underclock or
overclock your PC am I going to die here
oh boy okay I guess I'll just heal up
out of combat man oh where is our healer
at right now I am so out of position H
anyways
now yeah that solved a lot of the uh
issues for the most part there were
still some stability problems and
notably the black screen phenomenon did
sometimes happen even with the
underclock uh but yeah eventually you
know this July uh August relatively
right around that time uh is when we
found out that you know or I guess when
it went mainstream that intel was
selling uh CPUs that ended up being
defective right they were unstable they
were
crashing oh boy and yeah that was a big
Fiasco right and a lot of people have
suffered the results of that and I am
one of those people who ended up being
affected by these faulty CPUs I have a
13th gen Intel CPU it came with my
computer was a pre-made cuz I have
absolutely no idea how to make a
computer by myself and that's actually
what we're going to get to later that's
the main focus of what happened today
um but yeah so I realized that yeah
underclock and my CPU was actually a
solution other people had come to to try
and solve these problems in the interim
and that intel was working on a bios
update so at that point I realized okay
I probably need to switch my CPU around
I I need to either switch to AMD or
maybe try and find an Intel processor
that's
stable and in the meantime I was waiting
for the BIOS update I eventually
downloaded the BIOS update plugged it in
right did all the BIOS updating things
the hacking Wizardry okay it's not that
complicated and uh yeah it ended up
improving Things No Doubt out but the
black screen phenomenon was still
happening and as again you noticed if
you've been on my twitch Channel
recently it got relatively worse it's
happening a lot more on screen
now and so I decided to go ahead and
purchase a 12th gen Intel CPU which was
not affected by the stability problems
to see if I could socket that in and
have you know yes a slightly worse CPU
but a CPU that would be stable and uh
the reason Reas I decided to go down
that route originally was because if I
wanted to switch to AMD after
researching and talking with friends who
know more about this stuff than me I
realized I would have to replace my
entire motherboard for that and
replacing the motherboard is not fun
that that is basically taking your
entire computer art and then apart and
then putting it back together again like
that's that's not something I wanted to
do I wanted to avoid that at all cost so
downgrading seemed like a reasonable
option and I checked and made sure that
the 12 gen would be compatible with my
motherboard and it seem like it would be
fine so I got the 12th gen CPU and I got
some thermal paste so I could actually
you know make sure it was cooled
properly and all that stuff finally
arrived and all of it was together today
uh which is the 1st of October when I'm
recording this video you'll see this on
the second of
October and
uh I I suck at Hardware Hardware is
something totally beyond my uh my my
skills right my my dep I like I'm out of
my depth when I'm working with that I've
done a few things hardw related in the
past I have installed new RAM sticks on
my computer a few times actually and I
also installed a hard drive and both of
those were relatively easy processes
although I was still nervous I would
break something through the entire uh
course of doing it and I did a lot of
research I watched many many videos
installing CPUs and it all looked like a
pretty straightforward process so I
figured okay I might as well take a
crack at it maybe I can save some money
and uh not have someone do this for me
uh I was very scared of doing that with
the whole motherboard switching process
and uh if I ever were to switch out the
motherboard I probably would just pay
someone to do for me at that point but
uh just a CPU transfer it seemed simple
enough so this morning I cracked open my
computer case and I went ahead and took
the coolant fan off that was easy I went
ahead and unclamped uh the Hat
and pull the CPU out and that was all
fine and then I went to switch in the
new CPU the 12th gen CPU and I was so
nervous because like I said I know
nothing about hardware and I'm working
with thousands of dollars of equipment
here I have a 490 that alone is at least
like a grand to two grand I don't know I
don't remember how much of those are
going for but it's a lot so I didn't
want to break anything and I was
actually physically sweating because of
how anxious I was like this is something
that's always been a little bit daunting
to
me
and yeah so I inevitably just put the
CPU into the uh the computer I put the
thermal paste on ended up putting too
much thermal paste on actually but
better too much than not enough right
and put everything back together
reassemble it went to turn it
on it didn't turn on will not die not
yet it didn't turn on oh that was so
scary uh and the way it didn't turn on
was basically I plugged it in pressed
the power button and not a thing
happened not at all uh double check that
I actually flipped the switch on my
power supply and everything was plugged
in properly it was so yeah that wasn't
working that was scary but that's not
the truly most scary part of this the
most scary thing by far is I decided
okay well this isn't working let me put
back in the 13th gen and make sure that
I haven't Royal screwed up the computer
somehow right the 13th gen should be
able to work it's the original CPU that
was in there my computer was just
working I was watching videos with lunch
uh before I uh before I uh took it out
right so it was
fine so I took the 12th gen out but the
13th gen back in put on a tiny little
bit of thermal past and
uh it didn't start it didn't boot it
didn't boot I was so terrified dude I
was like oh my God I just royally
screwed up this multi thousand PC and
I'm not going to be able to do my job
which is YouTube and streaming right
this is not just my hobby this is like I
I make money off this so oh crap what
what the heck am I going to
do and yeah I was just freaking out so
at that point I decided to talk with uh
one of the friends who I uh was uh
conferring with uh oh
hello jenno stop it I'm trying to tell a
story oh God I went and talked with one
my friends uh conferred with him showed
some pictures and he had some hypotheses
but you know there's only so much you
can do from some grainy photos on a
crappy Android
phone uh not that Android phones are
crappy I just have a crappy Android
phone you know
um but yeah he he he hypothesized that I
might have like royally screwed things
up and so I decided to uh look for some
tech stores near me uh some tech repair
stores called up a guy and eventually I
ended up taking my computer into a local
shop here and the man I worked with was
an absolute gentleman he was fantastic I
left a five star review like he he did a
fantastic job but uh yeah oh hello
okay eventually he suss out the problem
and we finally get to the part where I
feel like an absolute
colossal Monumental
gargantuen idiot
so when you put in a CPU into the
computer socket on your motherboard
there's a specific
alignment there's a for Intel CPUs and
motherboards there's a triangle which
indicates how you're supposed to align
it there's a triangle on the motherboard
and then a matching triangle on the
socket and you're supposed to make it so
those triangles are on the same
corner and I'm completely inexperienced
again I'm totally out of my depth on
this so I thought I saw a triangle when
I was slotting in the
CPU that was not the right triangle and
in hindsight I probably should have
realized that but you know hindsight is
2020 and at the time I was so nervous
that like I was just trying to spend as
little time in the computer case as
possible because I was so scared of
breaking something so yeah turns out I
had put both chips in upside
down you know that that's kind of a
rookie mistake and that's also kind of a
big
[Laughter]
problem no
okay
so yeah that's a massive blunder and no
wonder my computer was not turning off
and here's where it gets I guess a
little bit sad so uh the guy who was
working there he uh he basically cleaned
up all the stuff cleaned off all the
thermal paste made sure everything was
pristine uh there was also somehow like
a a bit of paste or dust or something
got into the actual socket itself
cleaned that off and he put the 12th gen
in right side this time he put it in the
the right
way and it didn't turn on the computer
actually we got more progress than we
originally had um basically when I put
the 12th gen in the first time upside
down obviously it didn't even turn off
nothing happened no fans turn on no
lights turn on nothing this time the
light on my GPU turned on not the lights
on my fans like the LED stuff just the
light on the GPU it turned on and the
fans turned on but the lights didn't
turn on and it didn't Boot and so we
decided okay might be a busted chip I
hypothesized maybe there's something to
do with the BIOS settings that's not
allowing to boot but uh basically we
ended up swapping that back to the
original chip that I had in the computer
put it in right side up uh gave the
computer good dusting as well and uh it
turned on it booted and that's how I'm
able to record this video for you right
now um
yeah so yeah all is back to normal all
is back to the way it was before I
decided to attempt to do brain surgery
on my computer while being less than an
amateur at Hardware uh
assembly
yeah and so you know obviously I'm so
grateful that my computer is still
working right I played a few hours of a
relatively Hardware intensive video game
just to make sure everything was running
fine and it seems to be running fine and
we'll see you in tomorrow's stream if
the black screen phenomenon happens
hopefully it doesn't maybe uh taking the
chip out and then putting it back in
with uh a Fresh coat of thermal paint
and making sure the computer was all
nicely dusted and stuff and just extra
clean maybe that'll somehow resolve the
issue I'm highly doubtful that that's
the case but maybe it'll feel a little
bit better I don't
know but yeah uh regardless I still have
a faulty 13th gen Intel CPU in my
computer and so if I still notice that
there are stability problems over the
next few weeks uh I guess I'm going to
have to try and find a different way to
fix this now if you heard what I just
said about how the 12th gen CPU didn't
work um despite it being aligned the
proper way and you might have a
hypothesis as to why that might be the
case then I'd love to hear your thoughts
on that in the comments section down
below but yeah my other idea was to
switch to AMD
uh but again that you know has a whole
lot of hassle I have to buy a new
motherboard I have to buy a new chip and
I have to pay for the services to put it
together because holy crap I'm not doing
that myself so it's quite the pickle and
it all started because I decided to
splurge and buy a really nice computer
and everything in this computer has been
fantastic except that stinking CPU which
has caused me over a year of headaches
so yeah it's not a great situation to be
in but at least I still still have a
functioning computer at the end of the
day even if it's not totally uh Flawless
totally stable and uh yeah I'm just
going to have to do more research and
see where to go from there but I thought
I'd share that story because it could
have ended very differently my idiot
blunder might have cost me my
motherboard it could have been broken
Beyond repair and uh I yeah I might have
had to take a break from uploading
videos and streaming until I get all
that sorted out uh or I would have had
to upload for my laptop like oh my God
it could have been a a nightmare it
could have really seriously negatively
affected the channel so I suppose the
moral of the story that I have learned
is one if you are going to attempt
something like this and you feel like
you're in over your head take your
freaking time and double triple check to
make sure you got everything right even
if you're super nervous and super scared
take that extra time to make sure you
did it right and also I hear a lot of
talk about oh building a computer yeah
you can do that that's something that
Reg old consumer can do and you know
what if you do enough Research into it
you probably can but it's still quite a
uh a difficult and stressful thing and
if you're someone like me who doesn't
know much about hardware and who has a
very Juiced up computer and you have a
problem with it or you want to switch
out a component for some components it
might just be worth it to actually pay
someone who knows more about it than you
to do it for you so that way you don't
screw it up and have to deal with all
the stress and uh the tearing your hair
out of realizing you made a mistake so
lots of morals to be learned from that
story oh my gosh it was quite a uh a
difficult thing to go through but uh
yeah I should be able to stream
Wednesday which I guess is today when
you're watching this video and yeah
we'll just go from there so thank you
guys for watching if you enjoyed this uh
very questionable story then make sure
to drop a like on the video subscribe if
you're new around here and uh if you
want to support my e towards fixing my
Hardware uh then you can support the
channel in a number of ways you can
become a member by joining the uh
YouTube channel down below choose your
price and get different rewards for the
different price points you can also go
to the Nexus nexus. andrewchicken if you
were thinking of buying crystals you can
buy crystals there and support the
channel directly in the process or I
don't know if you just want to give a
donation I do have a tips page uh which
you can find on my twitch I believe do I
actually have it on my uh main channel
in the links I should I don't remember
if I do
let's go check guys this
is uh I do yeah look at that there's a
little tips page uh right here boom so
yeah if you if you just want to leave a
tip you can do that although that is
extremely generous so um yeah all of
your support is greatly appreciated but
uh with all that being said thank you
guys for watching I will see you all
next time peace out